## Commands

### ***cd***: This stands for change directory. It is used when the user wants to navigate through folders and change to a different directory to access different files and folders. If you enter "cd" in your terminal and press return/enter, you will go back to your home folder. "cd /" will go to your root directory. "cd .." will go to the directory above the one you are in. "cd -" will go back to the directory you were in last time before you used a cd command. 

### ***mkdir***: This command creates a directory where they do not already exist. You would use this when navigating through the files and folders on your computer and need to create a new directory for certain files. An example of this would be if you wanted to make a new directory to house all 2019 files, you would enter "mkdir Files-19". This would create a directory called Files-19 where we can store all our 2019 files.

### ***cp***: This command is used to copy files and/or directories. The command is used when we need to make copies of our files and move them around whether it be for backup reasons or etc. An example of this being used is “cp Files-19 Files-All”. This example shows the entire Files-19 directory is copied over to Files-All with the use of command “cp”

### ***Pwd***: This command stands for print working directory. What this means is that it will return back text letting you know what directory you are operating from. For example if I were in my documents folder and I entered “pwd”, the terminal says: /Users/adibhaque/documents

### ***mv***: This command lets you move a file/rename a file and put it in a new destination. The command reads mv which_file destination. We would use this in instances where we need to move a file from one location to another, or create a copy of a file with a different name. An example of this would be if I wanted to move a file called Assignment1 in my documents to my school folder. I would enter “mv Assignment1 /Users/adibhaque/Documents/School” This will place my file into my school directory

### ***rm***: Is a command used to remove files specified on a command line. This is used when we need to remove specific files from directories. By Default it cannot remove directories unless specified using the recursive options (-r, -R, --recursive). An example of this is if I were in my school directory and needed to remove a file from there that is not relevant to school I can enter “rm Finances.docx” and it will remove the Finances.docx file from the directory.

### ***History***: This command is used to show a list of all the commands you have entered on the command line since you started your session. To do so you would enter “history”. It will display a list of all the commands you have used. For me it shows nearly 74 commands entered. This is useful in situations where you need to know if you did a command earlier and forgot, or if you want to recall a command you used earlier. 

### ***Home directory and ~***: The ~ stands for tilde and is a shortcut to represent a user’s home directory. For example my home directory has a file called image1.jpeg. PWD for this would be, /Users/adibhaque/image1.jpeg. The directory this file is located in can also be known as ~/image1.jpeg. 

### ***file paths in Linux***: File paths are readable representations of files or folders on a computer system. They are very similar to the file paths we see every day such as njit.edu/academics. Linux file paths will appear in a format like /usr/bin/code/file001.py. This reads basically as in Root there is a folder called usr, in usr there is a folder called bin, in bin there is a folder called code, and in code there is a file called file001.py. 

### ***Using the tab key to complete file paths***: This is a useful command/tool to use to save time while typing out commands. For example if I were navigating my home directory and wanted to go to my school folder. I can begin typing “CD Documents/Sc” after Sc, I can press the tab button and it will complete the command for me showing “CD Documents/School”. After I press enter I will be in the School directory. This is especially useful when having to type long file or folder names. 

### ***Using up and down arrow for history***: This tool is used to cycle through the different commands you have entered during your session. It is useful especially when you need to repeat a command. Instead of typing the whole command out you just press up on your keyboard and it will automatically show the commands you previously entered before. You can press up or down to cycle through them as you please
